---
title: "exec(3) in Go"
slug: exec-3-in-go
author: "Caius Durling"
date: 2015-01-31 09:37:37 +0000
tag:
    - Go
---

Using [exec(3)][exec manpage] from Go is simple enough, once you figure out to look in the [syscall][] package and how to pass arguments to the new command.

[exec manpage]: http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man3/exec.3.html
[syscall]: http://golang.org/pkg/syscall/

As a simple example, I'm going to exec `/bin/echo` with a hardcoded string from the go binary. _The program built here is in the [gecho][] (Gecko, geddit?) git repo, which each stage as a commit._

[gecho]: https://github.com/caius/gecho

In our main function lets setup some variables we're going to need for arguments to `syscall.Exec`:

```go
func main() {
  cmdPath := "/bin/echo"
  cmdArgs := []string{"Hello", "World"}
  cmdEnv := []string{}    
}
```

_(We could use `os.Environ()` for `cmdEnv` to take the ENV from the go binary, but we don't require anything from the environmnt here so it doesn't matter that we aren't.)_

Now we have the arguments for `syscall.Exec`, lets add that in and see what happens:

```go
err := syscall.Exec(cmdPath, cmdArgs, cmdEnv)
if err != nil {
  panic(err)
}
```

And running the file (`go run gecho.go` compiles & runs for us) gives the following output:

    World

Err, say what now? Where's "Hello" gone?!

Took me a while to figure this out when I originally ran into this. The answer is staring us right in the face if we go look at the [syscall.Exec docs][syscall.Exec]. Lets have a look at the function signature, argument names and all:

[syscall.Exec]: http://golang.org/pkg/syscall/#Exec

```go
func Exec(argv0 string, argv []string, envv []string) (err error)
```

Hmm. The first argument is `argv0` (and a string), rather than `binaryPath` or something similar. The second argument is then `argv` and an array of strings.

_At this point I remember that the first element of `argv` in other runtimes is the name of the binary or command invoked - `$0` in a bash script is the name of the script for example._

The answer is simple. `cmdArgs` in our script should have `/bin/echo` as the first element, and then we pass `cmdArgs[0], cmdArgs` as the first two arguments to `syscall.Exec`. Lets give that a go:

```go
func main() {
  cmdArgs := []string{"/bin/echo", "Hello", "World"}
  cmdEnv := []string{}

  err := syscall.Exec(cmdArgs[0], cmdArgs, cmdEnv)
  if err != nil {
    panic(err)
  }
}
```

And running it (`go run gecho.go` remember) gives the expected output:

    Hello World

Excellent. Now I just need to remember `argv` contains the command name as `argv[0]` and we're golden.

* * *

There is also the [os/exec][] package in the stdlib, which is intended for executing other binaries as child processes from what I can tell. Tellingly, when you create a `exec.Cmd` struct with `exec.Command()` you give it the name as first argument, and args as following arguments. Then it has the following snippet in the documentation:

[os/exec]: http://golang.org/pkg/os/exec/

> The returned Cmd's Args field is constructed from the command name followed by the elements of arg, so arg should not include the command name itself. For example, `Command("echo", "hello")`

So `cmd := exec.Command("echo", "hello"); cmd.Args` would return `[]string{"echo", "hello"}` - which is recognisable as what we have to pass to `syscall.Exec`!
